Let's talk about some various ways.
There is an add-on, it's not in there
by default, which seems criminal.
But there is an addon
that will both show you
actually how these look with
either blurred vision or
various different color, things.
I'm not entirely sure what the right
word is, so I'm just gonna be vague.
And so you can kinda see what it
looks like, which is super useful.
But then if you have this on the bottom
bar as well, which you would argue
that I would have shown earlier,
you can move this to the bottom.
You've got interactions
that are accessibility.
And for running X-Core,
will show you some of the basic,
does it have the right ARIA attributes?
Does it pass color contrast?
That is the one,
who thinks my text area was good enough?
I don't think.
Dark mode, though, wasn't right in dark.
Yeah, violation.
Right, a violation,
it was fine in light mode.
In dark mode, there's not enough
contrast on that character count, right?
So let's pretend that I did
that on purpose and fix it.
So we can go in now.
I totally did it on purpose.
So go in here.
So slate-600 is probably not enough.
One can literally, Still not enough.
400 did the trick, right?
And this is great on a component level
because when we did the accessibility,
Death March, right, just fix the issues.
You have a lot of other things like h1,
h2, h3 headings in the right order.
In a world where you're not
writing a web page, and
everything's broken up into columns,
might be the end of me at some point.
And that's the thing, but
actually being able to see it on
an individual component level.
And then theoretically, if you run it
through Playwright, every page fails for
the same reason, right?
And so we checked at the very end and we
did a manual audit with the design team,
but checked at the very end, but
it was untenable to take the overall site
ones because yeah,
that's a component layout in an app.
The same header failed
on every single page.
It is easier to have the header and
storybook in your design system.
Go triage it there, get that one working,
move on to the next component.
Again, the fun of being both a manager and
an engineer is you go into
your component library, you do ls,
right, to get all the files.
And then you use multi-cursor and create
the title for the JIRA ticket called
fix Excel issues in this file in your
design system, and then you put them
into a sprint and you all regret
choices you made in your life, right?
And but having as an individual component
one by one in a way that we could check
off, and not just having to
stare at a page and go for it,
is probably the only reason we were
able to get it done super fast, right?
And so some of these structures,
yes, for design system, for
sharing design consistency, all of the
things that every designer who has ever
talked about design system
tries to sell you on.
As an engineer who has to do stuff,
also these same tools make my
productivity as an engineer way better.
All right, the other thing that we can
do with the accessibility testing,
I'll kinda show you this real quick.
Is turns out there is a magical third
file in that .storybook directory
that you can create, and
that is called test-runner.ts,
which are some configuration options for
your test-runner.
I am not gonna type this in by hand.
So if you need to add it,
that is the addon,
it was already included in there for you.
Let's look at this, which is basically you
can configure the test-runner, which is,
again, playwright effectively.
So we've got axe-playwright, axe,
which is the accessibility auditing tool,
playwright, which drives
the Chrome browser.
Side comment is on the paid
versions of Chromatic,
the free, you run Chrome.
But Chrome's not the problem,
you were using Chrome when you developed.
What browser broke?
>> Safari.
>> Safari, right?
You can also have it run Safari.
And that is, for me, as a person
who has access to my own budget,
[LAUGH] that's why I opened the first
strings, because three people at
my company, I have the stats of how
many people visit my site in Safari.
It's not a lot, but
people I work with who are loud,
one uses Firefox, one uses Safari,
don't wanna hear it.
Also, a certain company that makes Safari
might use the open source version of
a product, anyway, so I've heard.
Can't confirm or deny that.
So, yeah, those things are important.
And so you can run with Safari.
But anyway, as I was saying,
you injectAxe, this is really effectively
Playwright code that's running
through the Storybook configuration.
And to say,
as you leave each story, all right,
go ahead and
run the accessibility audit test.
I don't have a lot of components.
If when we were to load in the badges,
the dark mode danger badge,
maybe that one was intentionally low
contrast until I realized I differently,
intentionally made a mistake.
Not a mistake, an intentional choice
as well but it will also run through.
So again, the fear is always that,
it's always the little things.
Nobody intentionally,
doesn't do these things.
What happens is one well meaning change
at one point causes a regression.
If you don't have automated tests,
they build up until the next time
someone goes through and does an
accessibility audit and realize that all
systems decay into entropy, right,
including your best of intentions.
And so if it's not an automated in
your CI/CD, it ain't happening.
So cool, I don't know if anything will
fail at this point since we did fix
the issue we had, but
we'll find out together.
We did have one accessibility
violation found in LengthTooLong,
so let's go take a look at that one and
see what our issue is.
Possibly my red, but
something, again, is not,
the cool thing that you can do, I think
it's just my window a little bit too,
yeah, my window is
a little bit too crammed.
Show me, there it is.
This checkbox,
it's worth the price entry right here.
Where it says highlight results,
I check that box.
It shows me exactly where the issue is,
right?
Again, it's my count that I
added at the last minute,
because I thought it'd be fun.
That is, again, not meeting
the accessibility contract, but
that ability to highlight the change and
actually see it is huge.
Do I wish I had that a long time ago, and
it's one of the reasons that I
think developing in Storybook is
also incredibly powerful on top of all the
design system, accoutrements that you get.
That is worth the price
of entry right there.
Let's be good people and fix it.
So we've got that.
Cool, cool, cool.
And so let's brighterize that one, too.
400 did the trick last time.
I'm hoping 400 does the trick this time.
Zero violations.
We're good.
So yeah, but super helpful because it did
catch something I wasn't even aware of.
I can hand-wave you, tell you, and
it'll catch things you're not aware of.
It's really great when it catches
something it was not aware of.